And so
let's actually go through a data example.
Here I'm going to use the father son
data from the using our data set, and
I'm going to grab the,
the son's height, and
n is going to be the number
of observations like always.
If I were to plot a histogram of the son's
height, I get this distribution right
here and I overlayed the histogram
with a continuous density estimate.
It's quite Gaussian looking.
Now this density estimate is
an estimate of the population density.
We don't have the population
density because we
didn't collect an infinite amount of data.
Variability of this histogram, which is
what the sample variance is calculating.
It's estimating the variability
of son's height
from whatever population
this was drawn from.
Let's assume that it was a random sample.
Let's just go through a couple of
numbers we can calculate here.
So here I took variance of x,
variance of x divided by n,
standard deviation of x, standard
deviation of x divided by square root n.
I rounded all the numbers
to two decimal places.
So 7.92 and 2.81, the variance of x and
the standard deviation of x,
are simply talking about the variability
in son's heights from this data set,
which are estimates of the variability.
The population variability of
sons heights if you're willing to
assume that these sons are a random
sample from some meaningful population.
I like 2.81 in this case over 7.92 because
7.92 is expressed in inches squared and
2.81 is expressed in inches, so
I like to work in the units
rather than the units squared.
0.01 and 0.09 are no longer talking about
the variability in the children's heights.
It's talking about the variability in
averages of ten children's heights.
So 0.09 is probably the most meaningful
one, and it's the standard error.
Or in other words,
the standard deviation in the distribution
of averages of n children's heights.
And a, again,
in this case it's an estimate of that, but
it's the best estimate we have
from the data that we have.
So let's summarize what we know
because we covered a lot of
somewhat complicated
topics in this lecture.
And I would say, fundamentally,
what differentiates understanding
statistics from not understanding
statistics is understanding variability.
So if I were to say, what's the most
important lecture, it might be this one.
So let's summarize what we know.
The sample variance is an estimate
of the population variance.
The distribution of the sample variance
is centered at what it's estimating.
This is a good thing.
This means that it's unbiased.
And it gets more concentrated about what
it's estimating as you collect more data.
Again, this is a good thing.
This means if we go to the trouble
of collecting more data,
we get a better estimate, that
the distribution of the sample variance is
more concentrated about
what it's estimating.
We also know a lot about
the distribution of sample means.
We know where it was centered
at from the last lecture, but
we also know in this lecture
that the variance of
the sample mean is the population variance
divided by n and the square root of it,
sigma divided by square root n,
is the so called standard error.
These quantities represent how variable
averages are drawn from this population.
And it turns out that we can say a lot
of about the distribution of averages
from random samples even though we only
get to look at one on a given data set.
And this gives a lot of work,
a lot to work with and
it forms a lot of the foundation
of ways in which we can perform